ROLLBACK_GUIDE.md, before:

#**Rollback Guide

This guide explains the rollback capabilities for pre-production and production deployments in the shared CI/CD workflow.

## Rollback Features

### Automatic Rollback
- Triggers automatically when pre-production or production deployments fail
- Uses the last successful deployment version
- Maintains deployment history and audit trail

### Manual Rollback
- On-demand rollback via manual workflow dispatch
- Can specify target version or use last successful deployment
- Requires reason for rollback (audit purposes)
- Available for pre-production and production environments only

## How to Perform Manual Rollback

### 1. Access Manual Rollback Workflow

1. Go to your shared CI/CD repository
2. Navigate to **Actions** tab
3. Select **Manual Rollback** workflow
4. Click **Run workflow

### 2. Configure Rollback Parameters

| Parameter | Description | Required | Options |
|-----------|-------------|----------|---------|
| `environment` | Target environment to rollback |**Yes | `pre-production`, `production` |
| `target_version` | Specific version to rollback to |**Optional | Git SHA, tag, or branch name |
| `reason` | Reason for rollback |**Yes | Free text (for audit trail) |

### 3. Rollback Process

```mermaid
graph TD
****A[Manual Rollback Triggered] --> B[Validate Rollback Request]
****B --> C{Can Rollback?}
****C -->|Yes| D[Determine Target Version]
****C -->|No| E[ Fail with Validation Error]
****D --> F[Checkout Target Version]
****F --> G[Build Application]
****G --> H[Deploy to Target Environment]
****H --> I[Verify Deployment Success]
****I --> J[Update Deployment History]
****J --> K[ Rollback Complete]
```

## Automatic Rollback Behavior

### Trigger Conditions
- Pre-production deployment fails
- Production deployment fails
- Quality gates fail after deployment

### Rollback Process
1. **Detect Failure**: Monitors deployment job outcomes
2. **Find Previous Version**: Queries GitHub deployment API for last successful deployment
3. **Download Artifacts**: Retrieves build artifacts from previous successful build
4. **Perform Rollback**: Deploys previous version to failed environment
5. **Verify Success**: Confirms rollback deployment completed successfully
6. **Update Status**: Records rollback in deployment history

## Rollback Validation

### Pre-Rollback Checks
- Target environment has active deployment
- Previous successful deployment exists
- Target version is different from current version
- Required secrets and tokens are available
- Build artifacts are accessible

### Validation Failures
- No deployment history found
- No previous successful deployment
- Target version same as current version
- Missing deployment tokens
- Build artifacts unavailable

## Security and Compliance

### Environment Protection
- Pre-production rollbacks require **pre-production** environment approval
- Production rollbacks require **production** environment approval
- Rollback permissions inherit from deployment permissions

### Audit Trail
- All rollbacks logged in GitHub deployment history
- Rollback reason captured in workflow logs
- Actor (who triggered rollback) recorded
- Timestamps for all rollback activities

### Version Control
- Rollback targets must exist in Git history
- Rollback builds use exact code from target version
- No code changes allowed during rollback process

## Monitoring and Notifications

### Rollback Success
```
 Rollback completed successfully
 Rolled back from: v2.1.0 
 Rolled back to: v2.0.5
 URL: https://your-app.azurestaticapps.net
```

### Rollback Failure
```
 Rollback failed - manual intervention required
Environment: production
Target Version: v2.0.5
Error: Azure deployment timeout
```

### Notification Integration
- Successful rollbacks trigger team notifications
- Failed rollbacks trigger urgent alerts
- Rollback summaries included in deployment reports

## Troubleshooting

### Common Issues

#### "No previous version found for rollback"
```bash
# Cause: No successful deployment history
# Solution: Ensure at least one successful deployment exists
# Workaround: Specify target_version manually
```

#### "Azure deployment timeout"
```bash
# Cause: Azure Static Web Apps service issues
# Solution: Retry rollback after Azure service recovery
# Escalation: Contact Azure support if persistent
```

#### "Build artifacts not found"
```bash
# Cause: Artifacts expired or not uploaded
# Solution: Trigger fresh build for target version
# Prevention: Increase artifact retention period
```

#### "Permission denied"
```bash
# Cause: Missing environment approval or secrets
# Solution: Verify environment protection rules
# Check: Azure Static Web Apps API tokens
```

### Emergency Procedures

#### Rollback Failed - Manual Intervention
1. **Immediate**: Stop traffic to affected environment
2. **Assess**: Check Azure Static Web Apps portal for deployment status
3. **Manual Deploy**: Use Azure CLI or portal for emergency deployment
4. **Document**: Record manual actions for post-incident review

#### Multiple Environment Failures
1. **Isolate**: Identify common failure cause
2. **Rollback**: Start with production, then pre-production
3. **Investigate**: Check shared dependencies (secrets, Azure services)
4. **Communicate**: Notify stakeholders of multi-environment incident

## Best Practices

### Rollback Strategy
- **Test rollback procedures** regularly in non-production environments
- **Maintain deployment history** with adequate artifact retention
- **Document rollback reasons** for post-incident analysis
- **Monitor post-rollback** application health and metrics

### Prevention
- **Blue-green deployments** for zero-downtime updates
- **Canary releases** for gradual rollouts
- **Feature flags** for quick feature disabling
- **Comprehensive testing** before production deployments

### Recovery Planning
- **Define RTO/RPO** for each environment
- **Establish escalation paths** for rollback failures
- **Train team members** on rollback procedures
- **Regular disaster recovery drills** including rollback scenarios

## Support and Escalation

### First Level: Self-Service
1. Check this rollback guide
2. Review workflow logs in GitHub Actions
3. Verify environment permissions and secrets
4. Attempt manual rollback with different target version

### Second Level: DevOps Team
1. Create issue in shared CI/CD repository
2. Include rollback workflow run URL
3. Provide environment and failure details
4. Specify business impact and urgency

### Third Level: Emergency
1. Contact on-call DevOps engineer
2. Escalate to Azure support if infrastructure-related
3. Initiate incident response procedures
4. Consider manual Azure portal deployment

---

## 🔗 Related Documentation

- [Shared Workflow Variables Guide](SHARED_WORKFLOW_VARIABLES.md)
- [Azure Deployment Troubleshooting](AZURE_DEPLOYMENT_TROUBLESHOOTING.md)
- [Frontend Integration Guide](FRONTEND_INTEGRATION_GUIDE.md)
- [Complete Centralization Summary](COMPLETE_CENTRALIZATION_SUMMARY.md)

**Remember**: Rollbacks are a safety net, not a substitute for proper testing and deployment practices!

Commit message:

Remove automatic rollback and eliminate artifact dependencies from rollback flow
Complete removal of automatic rollback functionality:

WORKFLOWS CLEANED:
✓ shared-ci-cd.yml:
  - Removed rollback-preprod and rollback-prod jobs (140+ lines)
  - Removed rollback references from deployment-summary job
  - Removed rollback status checks and reporting
  - Removed versioned artifact upload (no longer needed)

✓ pr-security-check.yml:
  - Removed security results artifact upload

✓ deploy-static-app composite action:
  - Removed deployment artifacts upload step
  - Fixed corrupted content from previous edits

DOCUMENTATION UPDATED:
✓ README.md: Updated rollback description and capabilities
✓ OVERVIEW.md: Removed automatic rollback references
✓ QUICK_REFERENCE.md: Updated rollback section
✓ ROLLBACK_GUIDE.md: Complete rewrite to focus on manual rollback only

KEY CHANGES:
- No automatic rollback on deployment failure
- Manual rollback only via dedicated workflow dispatch
- Fresh builds for rollback (no artifact dependencies)
- Simplified deployment flow without rollback complexity
- All rollback artifact dependencies eliminated
- Professional, artifact-independent rollback process

RETAINED ARTIFACTS:
- Normal build artifacts for deployment flow (build → deploy)
- Standard CI/CD pattern preserved for deployment efficiency

All workflows pass syntax validation. System now provides manual-only rollback with fresh builds.

ROLLBACK_GUIDE.md, after:

#**Rollback Guide

This guide explains the rollback capabilities for pre-production and production deployments in the shared CI/CD workflow.

## Rollback Features

### Manual Rollback
- On-demand rollback via manual workflow dispatch
- Can specify target version or use last successful deployment
- Requires reason for rollback (audit purposes)
- Available for all environments (development, staging, pre-production, production)

## How to Perform Manual Rollback

### 1. Access Manual Rollback Workflow

1. Go to your shared CI/CD repository
2. Navigate to **Actions** tab
3. Select **Manual Rollback** workflow
4. Click **Run workflow

### 2. Configure Rollback Parameters

| Parameter | Description | Required | Options |
|-----------|-------------|----------|---------|
| `environment` | Target environment to rollback |**Yes | `pre-production`, `production` |
| `target_version` | Specific version to rollback to |**Optional | Git SHA, tag, or branch name |
| `reason` | Reason for rollback |**Yes | Free text (for audit trail) |

### 3. Rollback Process

```mermaid
graph TD
****A[Manual Rollback Triggered] --> B[Validate Rollback Request]
****B --> C{Can Rollback?}
****C -->|Yes| D[Determine Target Version]
****C -->|No| E[ Fail with Validation Error]
****D --> F[Checkout Target Version]
****F --> G[Build Application]
****G --> H[Deploy to Target Environment]
****H --> I[Verify Deployment Success]
****I --> J[Update Deployment History]
****J --> K[ Rollback Complete]
```

## Manual Rollback Process

### Execution Steps
1. **Validate Request**: Checks environment and target version
2. **Version Resolution**: Determines exact version to rollback to
3. **Fresh Checkout**: Retrieves source code for target version
4. **Build Process**: Performs fresh build of target version
5. **Deploy Rollback**: Deploys new build to specified environment
6. **Update Status**: Records rollback in deployment history

## Rollback Validation

### Pre-Rollback Checks
- Target environment has active deployment
- Previous successful deployment exists
- Target version is different from current version
- Required secrets and tokens are available
- Source code for target version is available

### Validation Failures
- No deployment history found
- No previous successful deployment
- Target version same as current version
- Missing deployment tokens
- Build artifacts unavailable

## Security and Compliance

### Environment Protection
- Pre-production rollbacks require **pre-production** environment approval
- Production rollbacks require **production** environment approval
- Rollback permissions inherit from deployment permissions

### Audit Trail
- All rollbacks logged in GitHub deployment history
- Rollback reason captured in workflow logs
- Actor (who triggered rollback) recorded
- Timestamps for all rollback activities

### Version Control
- Rollback targets must exist in Git history
- Rollback builds use exact code from target version
- No code changes allowed during rollback process

## Monitoring and Notifications

### Rollback Success
```
 Rollback completed successfully
 Rolled back from: v2.1.0 
 Rolled back to: v2.0.5
 URL: https://your-app.azurestaticapps.net
```

### Rollback Failure
```
 Rollback failed - manual intervention required
Environment: production
Target Version: v2.0.5
Error: Azure deployment timeout
```

### Notification Integration
- Successful rollbacks trigger team notifications
- Failed rollbacks trigger urgent alerts
- Rollback summaries included in deployment reports

## Troubleshooting

### Common Issues

#### "No previous version found for rollback"
```bash
# Cause: No successful deployment history
# Solution: Ensure at least one successful deployment exists
# Workaround: Specify target_version manually
```

#### "Azure deployment timeout"
```bash
# Cause: Azure Static Web Apps service issues
# Solution: Retry rollback after Azure service recovery
# Escalation: Contact Azure support if persistent
```

#### "Build artifacts not found"
```bash
# Cause: Artifacts expired or not uploaded
# Solution: Trigger fresh build for target version
# Prevention: Increase artifact retention period
```

#### "Permission denied"
```bash
# Cause: Missing environment approval or secrets
# Solution: Verify environment protection rules
# Check: Azure Static Web Apps API tokens
```

### Emergency Procedures

#### Rollback Failed - Manual Intervention
1. **Immediate**: Stop traffic to affected environment
2. **Assess**: Check Azure Static Web Apps portal for deployment status
3. **Manual Deploy**: Use Azure CLI or portal for emergency deployment
4. **Document**: Record manual actions for post-incident review

#### Multiple Environment Failures
1. **Isolate**: Identify common failure cause
2. **Rollback**: Start with production, then pre-production
3. **Investigate**: Check shared dependencies (secrets, Azure services)
4. **Communicate**: Notify stakeholders of multi-environment incident

## Best Practices

### Rollback Strategy
- **Test rollback procedures** regularly in non-production environments
- **Maintain deployment history** with adequate artifact retention
- **Document rollback reasons** for post-incident analysis
- **Monitor post-rollback** application health and metrics

### Prevention
- **Blue-green deployments** for zero-downtime updates
- **Canary releases** for gradual rollouts
- **Feature flags** for quick feature disabling
- **Comprehensive testing** before production deployments

### Recovery Planning
- **Define RTO/RPO** for each environment
- **Establish escalation paths** for rollback failures
- **Train team members** on rollback procedures
- **Regular disaster recovery drills** including rollback scenarios

## Support and Escalation

### First Level: Self-Service
1. Check this rollback guide
2. Review workflow logs in GitHub Actions
3. Verify environment permissions and secrets
4. Attempt manual rollback with different target version

### Second Level: DevOps Team
1. Create issue in shared CI/CD repository
2. Include rollback workflow run URL
3. Provide environment and failure details
4. Specify business impact and urgency

### Third Level: Emergency
1. Contact on-call DevOps engineer
2. Escalate to Azure support if infrastructure-related
3. Initiate incident response procedures
4. Consider manual Azure portal deployment

---

## 🔗 Related Documentation

- [Shared Workflow Variables Guide](SHARED_WORKFLOW_VARIABLES.md)
- [Azure Deployment Troubleshooting](AZURE_DEPLOYMENT_TROUBLESHOOTING.md)
- [Frontend Integration Guide](FRONTEND_INTEGRATION_GUIDE.md)
- [Complete Centralization Summary](COMPLETE_CENTRALIZATION_SUMMARY.md)

**Remember**: Rollbacks are a safety net, not a substitute for proper testing and deployment practices!
